Feat/websocket (#109)
gatling/gatling.io-doc: content/guides/complex-usecases/websocket/index.md

---
menutitle: Testing WebSocket
title: How to test the WebSocket protocol
seotitle: Learn how to load test WebSocket with Gatling
lead: Learn how to load test WebSocket with Gatling
date: 2025-04-03T13:35:00+02:00

---

WebSocket is a bidirectional communication protocol enabling real-time data exchange between clients and servers. Unlike HTTP, WebSockets maintain a persistent connection for instant, efficient communication. WebSockets are ideal for applications needing real-time updates, like live chat, multiplayer gaming, collaborative editing, in-app notifications, and trading platforms, enhancing user experience and operational efficiency. In this guide, we use Gatling to load test this type of application.

## Prerequisites

- Gatling version `{{< var gatlingVersion >}}` or higher
- Clone [this code](https://github.com/gatling/devrel-projects) and cd into the `articles/websocketguide` folder.

## Launch the Server

Let's create a WebSocket server in JavaScript that we will load test:

{{< include-code "websocketserver#web-example" js>}}

> This code creates a WebSocket server on port `8765`. When someone connects, it sends a random number of messages with a random interval between `0` and `1` second between each message. Now let's load test it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This code creates a WebSocket server on port `8765`. When someone connects, it sends a random number of messages with a random interval between `0` and `1` second between each message.

  Now let's load test it.
```

## Test Creation

### Create the Scenario

> In this tutorial, we create a small scenario using Gatling. Our user connects to the server, checks for incoming messages, and prints the rest of the messages:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide, we create a scenario using Gatling. Our user connects to the server, checks for incoming messages, and prints the rest of the messages:
```

{{< include-code "WebSocketSample#websocket-example" java>}}

The `httpProtocol` allows Gatling to connect to our WebSocket application. After that, we connect to our application and check if the server returns the correct message. `ProcessUnmatchedMessage` processes inbound messages that haven’t been matched with a check and have been buffered. In our case, this allows us to display the messages the server sends.

### Generate the User

> We start with a single user to verify our simulation works correctly. To do that, add this code to your simulation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We start with a single user to verify our simulation works correctly. To do that, add the following code to your simulation:
```

---
menutitle: Testing WebSocket
title: How to test the WebSocket protocol
seotitle: Learn how to load test WebSocket with Gatling
lead: Learn how to load test WebSocket with Gatling
date: 2025-04-03T13:35:00+02:00

---

{{< alert info >}}

> This guide showcases the Java SDK, but the same process applies to the Kotlin and Scala SDK

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide showcases the Java SDK, but the same process applies to the Kotlin and Scala SDKs
```
